---
title: What's new in 3.11
seotitle: What's new in Gatling 3.11
description: Gatling 3.11 release notes.
lead: Gatling 3.11 release notes.
date: 2024-04-05T18:30:56+02:00
lastmod: 2024-04-05T21:30:56+02:00
---

For more detailed release notes, including patch releases, please check the [milestones on GitHub](https://github.com/gatling/gatling/milestones?state=closed).

{{< alert warning >}}
Beware that Gatling 3.11 introduces some breaking changes. Make sure to check the [Upgrade guide]({{< ref "release-notes/oss/upgrading/3.10-to-3.11" >}})
{{</ alert >}}

## Core

* [#4512](https://github.com/gatling/gatling/issues/4512): Stop supporting relative filesystem paths for resources (feeders, bodies)
* [#4523](https://github.com/gatling/gatling/issues/4523):
  * Drop deprecated `${}` Gatling EL syntax, use `#{}` instead
  * Drop deprecated `Choice#withKey` and `Choice#withWeight`, use `onCase` and `percent` instead
  * Drop deprecated `heavisideUsers`, use `stressPeakUsers`
  * Drop deprecated feeders' `convert`, use `transform`
  * Drop deprecated `WhiteList` and `BlackList`, use `AllowList` and `DenyList` instead
  * Drop deprecated HTTP `polling`, use `poll` instead
  * Drop deprecated HTTP `maxConnectionsPerHostLikeXXX`, use `maxConnectionsPerHost(n)` instead
  * Drop deprecated HTTP `ignoreDefaultChecks`, use `ignoreProtocolChecks`
  * Drop deprecated MQTT `wait`, use `await`
  * Add new [`deploymentInfo`]({{< ref "/reference/script/core/simulation#deployment-info" >}}) helper that provides Load Generators deployment information on Gatling Enterprise.

## HTTP

* [#4508](https://github.com/gatling/gatling/issues/4508): Specify the HTTP method used to open an SSE stream and support POST
* [#4514](https://github.com/gatling/gatling/issues/4514): Properly implement HTTPS proxies support, revamp corresponding API
* [#4515](https://github.com/gatling/gatling/issues/4515): Drop virtual host support
* [#4529](https://github.com/gatling/gatling/issues/4529): Provide a way to process unmatched WebSocket messages
* [#4530](https://github.com/gatling/gatling/issues/4530): Provide a way to process unmatched Server Sent Events messages
* [#4536](https://github.com/gatling/gatling/issues/4536): Make `getCookieValue` algorithm more user friendly

## Bundle

* [#4512](https://github.com/gatling/gatling/issues/4512): Replace the standalone bundle with a Maven based one

## gatling-maven-plugin 4.8.0

* Now require at least Maven 3.6.3.
* Drop the `resourcesFolder` and `configFolder` configuration options; we now always use the test resources folder instead.
* Drop the following parameters for `gatling:recorder` that can only be configured through the GUI or the `recorder.conf` file:
  * `gatling.recorder.encoding`
  * `gatling.recorder.followRedirect`
  * `gatling.recorder.proxyHost`,
  * `gatling.recorder.proxyPort`
  * `gatling.recorder.proxySslPort`
  * `gatling.recorder.simulationsFolder`
* The `gatling:test` goal now runs in interactive mode and suggests the simulation class to launch unless:
  * there's only one Simulation available,
  * or the Simulation class is forced with the `-Dgatling.simulationClass=<FullyQualifiedClassName>` Java System Property,
  * or the non-interactive mode is forced, in which case the task will fail if there is more than 1 simulation available,
  * or it's in batch mode (`-B` Maven option), in which case the task will fail if there is more than 1 simulation available,
  * or the `CI` env var is set to `true`, in which case the task will fail if there is more than 1 simulation available.

## gatling-gradle-plugin 3.11.0

* Drop Simulation classes detection based on file name that must end by "Simulation". Properly detect classes that extend `Simulation`.
* Simulation classes filtering is now based on class name and not file name (these can differ in Kotlin and Scala).
* Introduce a new `gatlingRecorder` task to launch the Recorder.
* The `gatlingRun` task now runs in interactive mode and suggests the simulation class to launch unless:
  * there's only one Simulation available,
  * or the Simulation class is forced with the `--simulation=<FullyQualifiedClassName>` option,
  * or the non-interactive mode is forced with the `--non-interactive` option, in which case the task will fail if there is more than 1 simulation available,
  * or the `CI` env var is set to `true`, in which case the task will fail if there is more than 1 simulation available.
* By default, the `gatlingRun` task no longer runs all the available Simulations in alphabetical order. This feature is achieved with the `--all` option.
* The custom `gatlingRun-<FullyQualifiedClassName>` task has been dropped in favor of the `--simulation` option.
* The `scala` plugin is no longer applied by default; it's up to the user to apply it if they have a Scala project.
* Drop the `gatlingLogback` task, it's up to the user to add a configuration file for logback, as available in the demo projects.
