---
title: Gatling Enterprise 1.13
menutitle: What's New in 1.13
seotitle: What's New in Gatling Enterprise 1.13
description: Learn about the main new features of Gatling Enterprise 1.13
lead: Learn about the main new features of Gatling Enterprise 1.13
date: 2021-04-06T17:55:36+02:00
lastmod: 2021-08-16T17:55:36+02:00
---

{{< alert info >}}
Release notes only apply to Gatling Enterprise Self-Hosted and not to Gatling Enterprise Cloud.
{{< /alert >}}

## Upgrading

{{< alert tip >}}
Prior to upgrading, make sure to perform the required backups as described at the beginning of the Installation Guide.
{{< /alert >}}

{{< alert warning >}}
Images of Gatling Enterprise published to the AWS Marketplace are made using the installer.
The directory layout will be the same.
{{< /alert >}}

{{< alert warning >}}
As announced when we released Gatling Enterprise 1.12.0, the `http://repository.gatling.io/` server was supposed to get decommissioned end of November 2020.
We extended the deadline to the end of December for give our customers more time to adapt, but the server will definitely be gone in January 2021.
From now on, please use `https://downloads.gatling.io/releases/YOUR_CUSTOMER_ID/`.
{{< /alert >}}

## Gatling Enterprise 1.13

Gatling Enterprise 1.13 introduce support for multiple versions of Gatling and performance fixes.

### Gatling 3.3, 3.4 and 3.5 generations support

Gatling Enterprise 1.13 is compatible with the 3 latest Gatling generations.

{{< alert tip >}}
Only Gatling 3.5 will be actively maintained.

Multiple versions support is for convenience so that customers don't have to upgrade all their tests when upgrading their Gatling Enterprise platform.

Customers are recommended to upgrade to Gatling 3.5 as soon as they can.
{{< /alert >}}

### Key New Features

We've changed the way duration events are aggregated.

Prior to Gatling Enterprise 1.13, those stats were aggregated by start timestamp, which could cause a lot of memory and CPU usage without any proven benefit.

Those stats are now aggregated by end timestamp, which results in a way more sound memory and CPU usage and paves the way for more long duration metrics that could be implemented in a future release, such as scenario duration.

We've also introduced hard limits on the number of metrics that a given test run can generate.
In some situations, a test could generate way too many metrics and cause the whole Gatling Enterprise instance to crash.

### Key Bug Fixes

We've fixed some important bugs that could cause injectors and Gatling Enterprise server to not be in sync, causing long tests to abnormally crash.

Please check the Release Note for the full list of bug fixes.

## Gatling 3.5.0

{{< alert tip >}}
Gatling 3.5 becomes the production version, meaning that no further improvements and bug fixes will happen on Gatling 3.4.
{{< /alert >}}

### Scala 2.13

Scala 2.13.0 was released in June 2019 and Scala 3 is expected soon, so it was critical that Gatling stopped lagging behind.

Gatling 3.5.0 is compiled against Scala 2.13, meaning that it's not binary compatible with the previous releases.

Please check the [migration guide]({{< ref "../oss/upgrading/3.4-to-3.5/index.md" >}}) for more information about how to upgrade your tests.
The most noticeable impact is probably refreshing projects imported in your IDE.

Please also check [the full release note](https://github.com/gatling/gatling/milestone/94?closed=1) for more details about the content of this release.

### Key New Features

* support for Scala case classes in Gatling Expression Language and `jsonStringify`
* ability to use [Pebble templates](https://pebbletemplates.io/) for multipart parts
* ability to provide regex patterns to `useAllLocalAddresses` to only use desired local addresses

### Key Bug Fixes

* children scenarios not being triggered when parent doesn't generate any load. This can typically happen when using a parent scenario to initialize something with one single virtual user while running a cluster of injector so only one node get the single user.
* feeders configured with `batch` still loading the first batch, making them unsuitable for lazy loading while the file is actually populated at runtime from a parent scenario.

## Release Notes

### 1.13.4 (2021-03-18)

#### Gatling Enterprise

{{< alert warning >}}
[JFrog is terminating jCenter and Bintray services.](https://jfrog.com/blog/into-the-sunset-bintray-jcenter-gocenter-and-chartcenter/)
As a consequence, sbt users have to upgrade to dependencies and plugins versions hosted on maven central.
sbt users are **strongly** advised to upgrade to `sbt 1.4.9`, `gatling-sbt 3.2.2` and `sbt-frontline 1.3.2`.

{{< /alert >}}

{{< alert warning >}}
gradle users are **strongly** advised to upgrade to `frontline-gradle-plugin 1.3.4`.
{{< /alert >}}

##### Fixes

* FL-404: UI: link in the Error page to the Service Desk is sometimes wrong
* FL-406: Repositories: Test admin cannot create a S3 repository
* FL-450: Reports: top navigator go hover side navigator
* FL-459: Reports: wrong hidden Group* entry in Groups tab's select field
* FL-462: AWS: save button is enabled while there's no private key
* FL-463: Pools: warn when there is no private key configured
* FL-464: Reports: UI shouldn't stats when select is empty
* FL-471: Reports: going from requests to groups tab with no group shows an empty graph
* FL-480: Users: can't save when editing from scoped user to system admin
* FL-481: frontline-gradle-plugin: random crashes
* FL-492: GCE: updating an existing pool is broken
* FL-500: GCE: trying to connect too fast over SSH can result in "access denied" failure
* FL-501: Azure: force usage of Premium SSD with a minimum size of 256GB when running certified images
* FL-505: Trends: no toastr error on run delete failure
* FL-507: Azure: display correct exception on SDK crash
* FL-508: frontline-gradle-plugin: transitive dependencies are not filtered out
* FL-511: frontline-gradle-plugin: runtime dependencies are not included
* FL-516: Azure: crash on tests with multiple pools because ResourceGroup names are not unique
* FL-523: sbt: Upgrade sbt sample and plugins to cope with jCenter and Bintray incoming termination
* FL-526: Private Keys: superAdmin doesn't have access to private keys page

### 1.13.3 (2021-02-24)

#### Gatling Enterprise

##### Fixes

* FL-390: Runs: No data displayed + broken css after deleting runs and current page no longer exists
* FL-393: Runs: Delete option doesn't disappear after deleting a run so no run is selected
* FL-394: Runs: Trends are not refreshed after deleting a run
* FL-395: Runs: Page number go over the Navbar
* FL-397: Runs: Redux store misuse after deleting simulations
* FL-399: Security: Tampered payload can be used to take control of an entity of another team
* FL-427: API Token: Name is not modified on update
* FL-430: Pipeline doesn't delay deployment retries, causing deploying issues in particular on AWS Virginia
* FL-434: Simulations: Sort by team does not work

### 1.13.2 (2021-02-01)

{{< alert warning >}}
As announced for several months, we've finally turned down the `http://repository.gatling.io` maven repository.
Users have to download Gatling Enterprise components from `https://downloads.gatling.io`.
{{< /alert >}}

#### Gatling 3.5.1

See full release note: https://github.com/gatling/gatling/milestone/96?closed=1

#### Gatling Enterprise

##### Fixes

* FL-348: Dashboard: Hovering on requests and responses counts induces redux state mutation
* FL-349: Public link permissions flawed
* FL-350: CleanUpService scheduler does not execute cleanup
* FL-351: Doc: Installation guide chapter 7 is missing
* FL-357: Cassandra: Don't require keyspace create permission once schema is created (so users can restrict permissions)
* FL-365: CI Plugins: retry requests before considering a build is failed/unstable to cope with temporary failures
* FL-383: maven/gradle/sbt Packager Plugins: forcefully filter out netty-all fatjar
* FL-384: maven/gradle/sbt Packager Plugins: filter out META-INF/versions/ (broken Selenium 3 jars)
* FL-385: Cassandra: Migration 96 crashes when remote name doesn't contain an IP address
* FL-387: Runs History: pagination breaks when going to last page
* FL-391: Installer: should download Gatling Enterprise bundle from downloads.repository.io instead of repository.gatling.io

### 1.13.1 (2020-12-24)

##### Fixes

* FL-344: Summary: Request summary page blinks every 5 seconds
* FL-345: Team Test admins can no longer use global resources (pools, repositories), only resources belonging to their own team
* FL-347: Assertions stopped working

### 1.13.0 (2020-12-16)

#### Gatling 3.5.0

See full release note: https://github.com/gatling/gatling/milestone/94?closed=1

#### Gatling Enterprise

##### Features

* FL-13: Reports: Limit the number of errors message to avoid flooding
* FL-22: Reports: Limit the number of (scenario, group, request) to avoid flooding
* FL-36: Reports: Duration stats are now aggregated by end timestamp
* FL-86: Reports: Limit the number of remote addresses to avoid flooding

##### Fixes

* FL-12: Runs: Introduce paging on run history to avoid flooding when history is huge
* FL-14: Simulation: delete System prop button should be visible when there is only one defined
* FL-153: Forms: Click on a label should select its associated input
* FL-208: Runs: DNS resolution counts are not deleted when deleting a run
* FL-252: Security: Only global admins should be able to update simulation quotas
* FL-293: AWS: AMI toggle is always certified when editing
* FL-323: Repositories: Can't use a https repo without credentials
* FL-332: Runs: Fix possible desynchronization between injectors and Gatling Enterprise
