---
title: Gatling Enterprise 1.19
menutitle: What's New in 1.19
seotitle: What's New in Gatling Enterprise 1.19
description: Learn about the main new features of Gatling Enterprise 1.19
lead: Learn about the main new features of Gatling Enterprise 1.19
date: 2023-12-15T11:00:00+02:00
lastmod: 2023-15-19T11:00:00+02:00
---

{{< alert info >}}
Release notes only apply to Gatling Enterprise Self-Hosted and not to Gatling Enterprise Cloud.
{{< /alert >}}

## Highlights

Gatling Enterprise 1.19 introduces Gatling 3.10 and Java 21 support and requires running at least on Java 11.

### Java 11 Baseline

{{< alert warning >}}
Starting from this release, Gatling Enterprise requires at least Java 11.

If you're still running the Gatling Enterprise server or your Load Generators with an older version such as Java 8,
you must first upgrade these installations prior to upgrading to Gatling Enterprise 1.19.0.
{{< /alert >}}

### Gatling 3.3 and 3.4 Support Planned for Removal

{{< alert warning >}}
Support for Gatling 3.3 and 3.4 is planned for removal in an upcoming release.

We recommend that you upgrade your tests to Gatling 3.10.0, older versions are no longer maintained.
{{< /alert >}}

### Docker images default user change

{{< alert warning >}}
If you run the Gatling Enterprise server in Docker (including Kubernetes) and are upgrading directly from a version older than 1.18.3, please note that the default user for our Docker image changed in release 1.18.3.

In that case, make sure to refer to the instructions in the [1.18.3 release notes]({{< ref "1.18#1.18.3" >}}).
{{< /alert >}}

### Gatling 3.10 Support

Gatling 3.10 is the latest generation of Gatling.
Just like every new minor release, it's not binary compatible with previous releases, so code already compiled must be recompiled in order to upgrade.

### Java 21 Support

Gatling Enterprise now supports running on Java 21.
Docker, AWS MarketPlace and Azure MarketPlace images have been upgraded to run with Java 21.
This lets users easily use modern Java APIs in their Gatling tests.

## Release Notes

### 1.19.2 (2024-02-02)

#### Gatling Enterprise

##### Fixes

* SH-1009: Azure: disabling public IP addresses doesn't work for custom images

### 1.19.1 (2024-01-23)

#### Gatling 3.10.3

#### Gatling Enterprise

##### Fixes

* SH-998: About: fix wrong diplayed Gatling version
* SH-1007: Azure: upgrade to SDKv2 as SDKv1 is no longer maintained and frequently crashes on error handling (eg bad policies configuration)
* SH-1008: Azure: fix crash when switching credentials type on existing pool

### 1.19.0 (2023-12-18)

{{< alert warning >}}
Starting from this release, Gatling Enterprise requires at least Java 11.

If you're still running the Gatling Enterprise server or your Load Generators with an older version such as Java 8,
you must first upgrade these installations prior to upgrading to Gatling Enterprise 1.19.0.
{{< /alert >}}

#### Gatling 3.10.2

{{< alert warning >}}
Support for Gatling 3.3 and 3.4 is planned for removal in Gatling Enterprise 1.20.0.

We recommend that you upgrade your tests to Gatling 3.10.0, older versions are no longer maintained.
{{< /alert >}}

Gatling Enterprise 1.19 supports Gatling versions:
* 3.3 and 3.4 (planned for removal)
* 3.5 to 3.10 included

See full release note: https://github.com/gatling/gatling/milestone/118?closed=1

#### Gatling Enterprise

##### Features

* SH-987: AWS, Azure, GCP, Kubernetes: Add Java 21 Load Generator images

##### Fixes

* SH-992: Teams: check team simulation quota when transferring simulation ownership
* SH-997: OIDC: Prefer client_secret_post to client_secret_basic when the broker supports it
