---
title: Gatling Enterprise 1.20
menutitle: What's New in 1.20
seotitle: What's New in Gatling Enterprise 1.20
description: Learn about the main new features of Gatling Enterprise 1.20
lead: Learn about the main new features of Gatling Enterprise 1.20
date: 2024-03-07T11:00:00+02:00
lastmod: 2024-03-07T11:00:00+02:00
---

{{< alert info >}}
Release notes only apply to Gatling Enterprise Self-Hosted and not to Gatling Enterprise Cloud.
{{< /alert >}}

## Highlights

{{< alert warning >}}
Gatling Enterprise 1.20 drops the old deprecated Private Key scope `All` Scope.

Prior to upgrading, you must make sure that you are no longer using any Private Key with this scope but are only using `Repository` and `Pool`.

If you fail to do so, you'll have to revert to 1.19.2 and then do the required cleanup.
{{< /alert >}}

{{< alert warning >}}
Reminder: Gatling 3.3 and 3.4 support is deprecated and will be dropped in an upcoming release.
{{< /alert >}}

### Support for Azure Compute Galleries

VHD URLs are a deprecated mechanism for configuring the virtual disk image to be used for deploying VMs on Azure.

We're introducing the support for Compute Galleries for configuring your own virtual disk images for your Load Generators in your Azure Pools.

### Support for trusting custom certificates for Kubernetes API

If the API of your Kubernetes cluster is exposed over HTTPS using a private certificate, this certificate must be allowed on the client side to allow the connection.

You can now upload such a certificate through the Private Keys menu and then select this certificate when configuring a Kubernetes pool.

Introducing this feature also included dropping the usage of `kubectl` native commands.
As a result, `kubectl` no longer needs to be installed on your Gatling Enterprise servers when using Kubernetes Pools.

## Release Notes

### 1.20.0 (2024-03-07)

#### Gatling 3.10.4

#### Gatling Enterprise

##### Feature

* SH-1004: Kubernetes: allow to use a private certificate for Kubernetes API
* HYB-487: Azure: Manage Azure custom images from compute gallery
* SH-696: Private Keys: Block upgrade if there are still Private Keys with scope `All`

##### Fixes

* SH-1011: OIDC: OIDC userinfo request should be using GET, not POST with an empty body
