src/sphinx/general/configuration.rst, before:

#############
Configuration
#############

Gatling can be configured and optimized in three ways:

* with configuration files, located in ``conf`` directory
* with command line options
* with ``$JAVA_OPTS`` environment variable

Configuration files
===================

logback.xml
-----------

This file allows you to configure the log level of Gatling.
For further information, you should have a look at `Logback Documentation <http://logback.qos.ch/manual/index.html>`_.

.. note:: In order to log requests and responses, uncomment the dedicated logger in the `default logging configuration file <https://github.com/excilys/gatling/blob/master/gatling-bundle/src/universal/conf/logback.xml>`_.

gatling.conf
------------

Each value is described in the `default configuration file`_.

If you don't specify an option in the configuration file, it will fall back to a default value.
These values are also defined in the `default configuration file`_.

.. _gatling-cli-options:

Command Line Options
====================

Gatling can be started with several options listed below:

* **-h** (**-help**): Help
* **-nr** (**--no-reports**): Runs simulation but does not generate reports
* **-ro <folderName>** (**--reports-only <folderName>**): Generates the reports for the simulation log file located in <gatling_home>/results/<folderName>
* **-df <folderAbsolutePath>** (**--data-folder <folderAbsolutePath>**): Uses <folderAbsolutePath> as the folder where feeders are stored
* **-rf <folderAbsolutePath>** (**--results-folder <folderAbsolutePath>**): Uses <folderAbsolutePath> as the folder where results are stored
* **-bf <folderAbsolutePath>** (**--request-bodies-folder <folderAbsolutePath>**): Uses <folderAbsolutePath> as the folder where request bodies are stored
* **-sf <folderAbsolutePath>** (**--simulations-folder <folderAbsolutePath>**): Uses <folderAbsolutePath> as the folder where simulations are stored
* **-sbf <folderAbsolutePath>** (**--simulations-binaries-folder <folderAbsolutePath>**): Uses <folderAbsolutePath> as the folder where simulation binaries are stored
* **-s <className>** (**--simulation <className>**): Uses <className> as the name of the simulation to be run
* **-on <name>** (**--output-name <name>**): Uses <name> for the base name of the output directory
* **-sd <description>** (**--simulation-description <description>**): A short <description> of the run to include in the report
* **-m <description>** (**--mute**): Runs in mute mode: don't asks for run description nor simulation ID, use defaults

$JAVA_OPTS
==========

Default JAVA_OPTS are set in Gatling's launch scripts.
If you want to override them, you'll have to edit these files and replace whatever value you'd like to change in JAVA_OPTS.

If you want to set additional JAVA_OPTS to Gatling, you can do so by defining the JAVA_OPTS before the gatling command::

	~$ JAVA_OPTS="myAdditionalOption" bin/gatling.sh

.. _default configuration file: https://github.com/excilys/gatling/tree/master/gatling-bundle/src/universal/conf

Commit message:

Doc: explain how to override conf with system props

src/sphinx/general/configuration.rst, after:

#############
Configuration
#############

Gatling can be configured and optimized in three ways:

* with configuration files, located in ``conf`` directory
* with command line options
* with ``$JAVA_OPTS`` environment variable

Configuration files
===================

logback.xml
-----------

This file allows you to configure the log level of Gatling.
For further information, you should have a look at `Logback Documentation <http://logback.qos.ch/manual/index.html>`_.

.. note:: In order to log requests and responses, uncomment the dedicated logger in the `default logging configuration file <https://github.com/excilys/gatling/blob/master/gatling-bundle/src/universal/conf/logback.xml>`_.

gatling.conf
------------

Gatling configuration is based on the great `Typesafe Config library <https://github.com/typesafehub/config>`_.

Gatling configuration files, such as the `default configuration file`_ uses the `HOCON format <https://github.com/typesafehub/config/blob/master/HOCON.md>`_.

Gatling uses a fallback strategy, where:

**System properties > gatling.conf > gatling-defaults.conf**

``gatling.conf`` is placed in ``conf`` directory. It serves as an easy-to-edit base: all properties are commented and all values are equals to the default ones.

``gatling-defaults.conf`` is shipped in gatling-core jar and is not supposed to be edited.

If you want to override default values, you have two possibilities:

* change the value in ``gatling.conf`` (don't forget to uncomment the line and remove the #).
* set a System property (the name of the property must match `HOCON Path <https://github.com/typesafehub/config/blob/master/HOCON.md#paths-as-keys>`_)

.. _gatling-cli-options:

Command Line Options
====================

Gatling can be started with several options listed below:

* **-h** (**-help**): Help
* **-nr** (**--no-reports**): Runs simulation but does not generate reports
* **-ro <folderName>** (**--reports-only <folderName>**): Generates the reports for the simulation log file located in <gatling_home>/results/<folderName>
* **-df <folderAbsolutePath>** (**--data-folder <folderAbsolutePath>**): Uses <folderAbsolutePath> as the folder where feeders are stored
* **-rf <folderAbsolutePath>** (**--results-folder <folderAbsolutePath>**): Uses <folderAbsolutePath> as the folder where results are stored
* **-bf <folderAbsolutePath>** (**--request-bodies-folder <folderAbsolutePath>**): Uses <folderAbsolutePath> as the folder where request bodies are stored
* **-sf <folderAbsolutePath>** (**--simulations-folder <folderAbsolutePath>**): Uses <folderAbsolutePath> as the folder where simulations are stored
* **-sbf <folderAbsolutePath>** (**--simulations-binaries-folder <folderAbsolutePath>**): Uses <folderAbsolutePath> as the folder where simulation binaries are stored
* **-s <className>** (**--simulation <className>**): Uses <className> as the name of the simulation to be run
* **-on <name>** (**--output-name <name>**): Uses <name> for the base name of the output directory
* **-sd <description>** (**--simulation-description <description>**): A short <description> of the run to include in the report
* **-m <description>** (**--mute**): Runs in mute mode: don't asks for run description nor simulation ID, use defaults

$JAVA_OPTS
==========

Default JAVA_OPTS are set in Gatling's launch scripts.
If you want to override them, you'll have to edit these files and replace whatever value you'd like to change in JAVA_OPTS.

If you want to set additional JAVA_OPTS to Gatling, you can do so by defining the JAVA_OPTS before the gatling command::

	~$ JAVA_OPTS="myAdditionalOption" bin/gatling.sh

.. _default configuration file: https://github.com/excilys/gatling/tree/master/gatling-bundle/src/universal/conf/gatling.conf
