---
title: Public APIs
seotitle: Gatling Enterprise Self-Hosted public APIs
description: Learn how to use the Gatling Enterprise Self-Hosted public APIs with its Swagger (OpenAPI) documentation.
lead: Usage of the Gatling Enterprise Self-Hosted public API
date: 2021-03-08T13:50:24+01:00
lastmod: 2021-08-16T17:55:36+02:00
---

The Gatling Enterprise API server also exposes a public API that you can use to trigger runs or fetch run results and metrics.

We also use this API for our Continuous Integration plugins and our Grafana datasource.

This API is protected with [API tokens]({{< ref "../admin/api-tokens" >}}) generated by Gatling Enterprise administrators through the `Admin > API Tokens` tab.

You can access the Swagger documentation using the link `Gatling Enterprise API documentation` on the Documentation modal accessible on the sidenav (bottom left of the screen).

Some information before using the public API:

- Simulations ID are available on the Simulations Table, at the left of the simulation name.
- Runs ID are available on the Runs Table: `Simulations > Runs history`. To copy the id, click on the {{< icon clipboard >}} icon at the right of the run number.
- You can retrieve a team ID by clicking on the ID column inside the teams table.
- You have to provide the run ID as a query parameter to fetch other run metadata (injectors, remotes, hostnames, scenarios, groups, requests)
- The `from` and `to` query parameters from the `/series` endpoint are the lower and upper timestamp bounds of the time window you want to query. You can fetch the total run time window from the `/runs` endpoint (injectStart, injectEnd).
- The returned percentiles by the API are: min, p25, p50, p75, p80, p85, p90, p95, p99, p999, p9999 and max.
