---
title: What's new in 3.12
seotitle: What's new in Gatling 3.12
description: Gatling 3.12 release notes.
lead: Gatling 3.12 release notes.
date: 2024-09-09T09:58:00+02:00
lastmod: 2024-09-09T09:58:00+02:00
---

For more detailed release notes, including patch releases, please check the
[milestones on GitHub](https://github.com/gatling/gatling/milestones?state=closed).

{{< alert warning >}}
Beware that Gatling 3.12 introduces some breaking changes.
Make sure to check the [Upgrade guide]({{< ref "/release-notes/upgrading/3.11-to-3.12" >}})
{{</ alert >}}

## Dropping Akka

Version 3.12 drops the Akka library. There wasn't an issue with Akka or it's open-source fork Pekko, but we were only
using a very small fraction. For Gatling, we only need non-distributed thread-safe singletons, which we achieved with an
Executor, and a Multiple-Producers-Single-Consumer (MPSQ) queue for the actor mailbox.

This is a breaking change for third party plugins. If you are the maintainer of an open-source third party plugin,
please reach out on our [Community Forum](https://community.gatling.io) so we can help you with upgrading.

## Revamping and adding SDK components to stop an ongoing test {{% badge danger %}}BREAKING CHANGE{{% /badge %}} {#revamping-sdk-components}
 
`Injector` is now `LoadGenerator`. This change is largely for
consistency within the Gatling codebase and with the documentation using load generator. The following error options are
affected: 

| Old name         | New name              |
|------------------|-----------------------|
| `stopInjector`   | `stopLoadGenerator`   |
| `stopInjectorIf` | `stopLoadGeneratorIf` |

A new load generator stop option is available: `crashLoadGenerator`. It is the same as `stopLoadGenerator` except the
exit status is a failure and not a success. 

## Improvement on secure cookies handling

Contribution of Alexander Schwartz, from the Keycloak project. Thanks again!

## Improve Scala 3 compatibility

Gatling now ships an internal fork of quicklens so users can bring their own version, including one for Scala 3.
