.. _1.5.x-to-2.0:

###########################
Migrating from 1.5.x to 2.0
###########################

Global changes
==============

Gatling requires at least JDK7u6
--------------------------------

As targeting newer JDKs provides bug fixes, speed improvements and opens opportunities for optimization,
Gatling now requires at least a JDK7u6 (released almost two years ago already).


Scala 2.10
----------

Gatling is built with Scala 2.10.
If you're using `Scala IDE <http://scala-ide.org/index.html>`__, make sure you're using a version compatible with Scala 2.10.

Gatling is now available on Maven Central
-----------------------------------------

Gatling releases are now available on Maven Central, and snapshots are deployed on each successful build by Travis CI to Sonatype's snapshots repository.
If you were using Gatling with its Maven plugin, you no longer need to add the Excilys repository in your ``pom.xml``.


Package and GroupId changes
---------------------------

Gatling's artifacts groupId and package are now `io.gatling`.
You'll have to :

* Update your build scripts to change the groupId of Gatling's dependencies from `com.excilys.ebi.gatling` to `io.gatling`
* Update your simulations to replace the `com.excilys.ebi.gatling` part in the imports by `io.gatling`

Simulation
==========

Necessary imports
-----------------

* ``akka.util.duration`` classes have been ported to the ``scala.concurrent.duration`` package. Simply replace ``import akka.util.duration._`` by ``import scala.concurrent.duration._``.
* ``import bootstrap._`` and ``import assertions._`` are now unnecessary and have to be removed.
* ``import com.excilys.ebi.gatling.http.Headers.Names._`` is now unnecessary, headers names are now directly available from `HeaderNames`.
* ``import com.excilys.ebi.gatling.http.Headers.Values._`` is now unnecessary, headers values are now directly available from `HeaderValues`.


Protocols setup
---------------

Protocols are no longer configured by scenario and are now configured by simulation, using the ``protocols`` method.

A 1.4.x-1.5.x ``setUp`` like this one::

  setUp(scn.(...).protocolConfig(httpConfig))

would now be with Gatling 2.0::

  setUp(scn.(...)).protocols(httpConfig)

Assertions setup
----------------

The ``assertThat`` method has been removed, assertions are now configured using ``assertions`` in the same fashion as protocols are, e.g. ::

  setup(scn.(...).protocolConfig(httpConfig))

  assertThat(global.responseTime.max.lessThan(1000))

becomes::

  setup(scn.(...))
    .protocols(httpConfig)
    .assertions(global.responseTime.max.lessThan(1000)

New Injection DSL
-----------------

The ``users``, ``ramp`` and ``delay`` methods to configure the *injection profile* for your scenario have been removed in favor of a full-blown dedicated DSL.

Injection *steps* are now configured using the ``inject`` method available on your configured scenario.

Migrating ``users``
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

::

  // With Gatling 1.5.X
  setUp(scn.users(10)...)

  // With Gatling 2.0
  setUp(scn.inject(atOnceUsers(10))...

Migrating ``ramp``
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

::

  // With Gatling 1.5.X
  setUp(scn.users(10).ramp(30)...)

  // With Gatling 2.0
  setUp(scn.inject(rampUsers(10) over (30 seconds))...

Migrating ``delay``
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

::

  // With Gatling 1.5.X
  setUp(scn.users(10).delay(5)...)

  // With Gatling 2.0
  setUp(scn.inject(nothingFor(5 seconds), atOnceUsers(10))...

For more information on the new Injection DSL, please consult the :ref:`Injection DSL reference documentation <simulation-inject>`.

Core
====

Checks
------

``whatever`` has been renamed to ``optional``.

Structure Elements
------------------

* The first parameter of ``foreach`` is now an ``Expression`` (e.g. a Gatling EL string), not the name of the attribute to loop over.

For example, if you have a ``list`` attribute in the user's session holding a list of values::

  .foreach("list", "elem") {
    ...
  }

becomes::

  .foreach("${list}", "elem") {
    ...
  }

* In ``asLongAs``, ``exitASAP`` now defaults to true. For more information on the change of behaviour it introduces, see :ref:`asLongAs documentation <scenario-aslongas>`.

Session
-------

Session has been under major refactoring:

* ``session.get("foobar")`` becomes ``session("foobar")``
* ``session.getTypedAttribute[T]("foobar")`` becomes ``session("foobar").as[T]``
* ``session.getAttributeAsOption[T]("foobar")`` becomes ``session("foobar").asOption[T]``
* ``session.setAttribute("foobar", 1234)`` becomes ``session.set("foobar", 1234)``
* ``session.setAttributes(Map("foo" -> 1, "bar" -> 2)`` becomes ``session.setAll("foo" -> 1, "bar" -> 2)``
* ``session.removeAttribute("foobar")`` becomes ``session.remove("foobar")``
* ``session.isAttributeDefined("foobar")`` becomes ``session.contains("foobar")``

HTTP
====

Protocol
--------

HTTP protocol bootstrapper, ``httpProtocol``, has been renamed to ``http``.

Query parameters
----------------

Removed
^^^^^^^

Versions of ``queryParam`` and `multivaluedQueryParam` that took no other parameters than the key (resolving the value from the session, using the key's name to find the attribute with the same name) have been removed.

Modified
^^^^^^^^

``multivaluedQueryParam`` can now resolve the values directly from the session, using Gatling's EL.

Form parameters (for POST requests)
-----------------------------------

Renamed
^^^^^^^
Methods for adding form parameters to the request have been renamed:

* ``param`` => ``formParam``
* ``multiValuedParam`` => ``multivaluedFormParam``

Removed
^^^^^^^
Versions of ``queryParam`` and `multivaluedQueryParam` that took no other parameters than the key (resolving the value from the session, using the key's name to find the attribute with the same name) have been removed.

Modified
^^^^^^^^

``multivaluedFormParam`` can now resolve the values directly from the session, using Gatling's EL.

Request bodies
--------------

* Scalate templates support has been dropped. ElFileBody (see below) is the best suited to replace your existing Scalate templates.
* The API for setting request bodies on request has changed.
  Instead of having several methods like ``body``, ``fileBody`` and ``byteArrayBody``, there is a now a single method, ``body(...)`` in which you set the type of body to send.

Migrating ``.body(body)``
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

``.body(body)`` has been replaced by ``.body(StringBody(body))``.

::

  http("my post request")
    .post("http://www.example.org")
    .body("Look Ma, I'm a request body !")

becomes::

  http("my post request")
    .post("http://www.example.org")
    .body(StringBody("Look Ma, I'm a request body !"))

Migrating ``.fileBody(filePath)``
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

``.fileBody(filePath)`` has been replaced by ``.body(RawFileBody(filePath))``.

::

  http("my post request")
    .post("http://www.example.org")
    .fileBody("my_upload.xslx")

becomes::

  http("my post request")
    .post("http://www.example.org")
    .body(FileBody("my_upload.xslx"))

Migrating ``.fileBody(filePath, values)``
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

``.fileBody(filePath, values)`` has been replaced by ``.body(ElFileBody(filePath))``.
``values`` are now directly resolved from the virtual user's session's content.

::

  http("my post request")
    .post("http://www.example.org")
    .fileBody("my_template.txt", Map("userName" -> "user123")

becomes::

  http("my post request")
    .post("http://www.example.org")
    .body(ElFileBody("my template.txt"))

If ``my template.txt`` contains::

  Hi, my name is ${userName}

and the virtual user's session has an attribute ``userName`` set to ``user123``,

Then the effectively sent request body would be::

  Hi, my name is user123

Migrating ``.byteArrayBody(byteArray)``
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

``.byteArrayBody(byteArray)`` has been replaced by ``.body(ByteArrayBody(bytes))``.

::

  http("my post request")
    .post("http://www.example.org")
    .byteArrayBody(Array(1, 2, 3, 4))

becomes::

  http("my post request")
    .post("http://www.example.org")
    .body(ByteArrayBody(Array(1, 2, 3, 4)))

For more information, see the :ref:`Request bodies reference section <http-request-body>`.

Misc
----

* ``ExtendedResponse`` has been renamed into ``Response``.
* ``requestInfoExtractor`` and ``responseInfoExtractor`` have been merged into a single ``extraInfoExtractor``, which takes a ``ExtraInfo => List[Any]`` function.

For more information on ``extraInfoExtractor``, please refer to its :ref:`documentation <http-protocol-extractor>`.

Logs
====

``simulation.log`` has been redesigned.

If you wrote your own specific ``simulation.log`` parser, you'll need to migrate it to the new structure.

Recorder
========

Until now, when setting up the Recorder, you had to setup two ports for the Recorder's *local proxy*: one for HTTP, one for HTTPS.
This is not needed anymore, as the Recorder handles itself the switch to an HTTPS connection if necessary, and only a single port needs to be specified.

Maven Plugin
============

The ``<includes>...</includes>`` and ``<excludes>...</excludes>`` configuration options have been removed.
Should you want to select a specific simulation to run, you can use the ``<simulationClass>...</simulationClass>`` config option to do so.

For more information, see the :ref:`Maven plugin documentation <maven-plugin>`.
