.. _2.0-to-2.1:

#########################
Migrating from 2.0 to 2.1
#########################

Global changes
==============

Scala 2.11
----------

Gatling is now built with Scala 2.11.
If you're using `Scala IDE <http://scala-ide.org/index.html>`__, make sure you're using a version compatible with Scala 2.11.

Compiler runs standalone
------------------------

Gatling itself doesn't compile the Simulations anymore and expects that the simulations are already compiled.
This means that gatling.sh/gatling.bat runs the compiler prior to running Gatling.
Consequently, a few options in gatling.conf have been removed:

* ``gatling.core.disableCompiler``
* ``gatling.core.zinc.jvmArgs``

Percentiles
-----------

Gatling now publishes 4 percentiles instead of 2.
These percentiles are published in the reports and in the Graphite integration module.
Beware that keys in ``gatling.conf`` file have been translated:

* Gatling 2.0:
  * percentile1 = 95
  * percentile2 = 99
* Gatling 2.1+:
  * percentile1 = 50
  * percentile2 = 75
  * percentile3 = 95
  * percentile4 = 99

Maven Archetype
===============

Due to some necessary changes to allow Gatling to use Scala 2.11, you'll need to update ``IDEPathHelper.scala`` and ``Engine.scala``
if you're using the Maven archetype:

* Remove ``props.disableCompiler`` in ``Engine.scala``
* Replace ``val projectRootDir = File(gatlingConfUrl).parents(2)`` by ``val projectRootDir = File(gatlingConfUrl).ancestor(3)``
* Replace the imports:

::

  import scala.tools.nsc.io.File
  import scala.tools.nsc.io.Path.string2path

by::

  import java.nio.file.Path
  import io.gatling.core.util.PathHelper._

Core
====

Mute mode
---------

The "mute mode" option, which was previously restricted to the SBT Plugin,
is now also usable by the bundle scripts and the Maven Archetype.

Assertions
----------

Validating assertions in combination with the ``reports-only`` / ``ro`` option
does not require to pass the simulation (using ``-s``) for which the assertions will be validated anymore.

Throttling
----------

Throttling now automatically adds a maxDuration of either the simulation throttling duration, or the minimum of the scenarios throttling durations.

HTTP
====

Parameters
----------

Form parameters are no longer specific to POST method, you can use them with all methods.

Request Bodies Directory
------------------------

The directory name was changed from ``request-bodies`` to ``bodies`` as it now can host both request bodies and response bodies.
The latter one are now captured by the recorder, and can be used as template for :ref:`http-check-body-string <checking the response body>`.

CLI option was renamed from ``rbf`` to ``bdf``.
