.. _2.1-to-2.2:

#########################
Migrating from 2.1 to 2.2
#########################

JDK8
====

We've dropped support for JDK7 and now require JDK8.

Global changes
==============

* The format of a few configuration properties in gatling.conf has changed and must be updated to its new form.

  Where the values took the form ``"value1, value2, value3"``, it must be changed to : ``[value1, value2, value3]``.

  This impacts three configuration properties :

  * ``gatling.http.ahc.httpsEnabledProtocols`` : by default ``""``, now ``[]``
  * ``gatling.http.ahc.httpsEnabledCipherSuites`` : by default ``""``, now ``[]``
  * ``gatling.data.writers`` : by default ``"console, file"``, now ``[console, file]``


* Some configuration options have been renamed or dropped, please check the logs or update to a fresh gatling.config file copy.


Core
====

``doIf(actual, expected)`` that only execute wrapped block when ``actual`` evaluates to ``expected`` was renamed into
``doIfEquals`` for clarity and consistency.

Pauses
======

``normalPauses(stdDev: Double)`` was confusing and was replaced by
``normalPausesWithPercentageDuration(stdDev: Double)`` and ``normalPausesWithStdDevDuration(stdDev: Duration)``

HTTP
====

Protocol
--------

A typo was fixed and ``connection`` was renamed into ``connectionHeader``.

ElFileBody
----------

``ELFileBody`` has been renamed to ``ElFileBody``.

Cookie
------

``Cookie.withExpires`` was dropped, as it would be very cumbersome to compute and pass a date.
Use `Cookie.withMaxAge` instead.

Check
-----

``latencyInMillis`` was dropped, as this metric (time between last byte sent and first by received)
didn't make sense for most people and only brought confusion.`

Local Address
-------------

``localAddress`` is now only available at HTTP protocol level, not request, and take one or many Strings,
instead of a single `Expression[InetAddress]``.

Reports
=======

``latency`` charts were dropped, as this metric (time between last byte sent and first by received)
didn't make sense for most people and only brought confusion.

Maven Plugin
============

``execute`` task is now deprecated and will be removed in a future version.
Please now use ``test`` and ``integration-test``.

Reports files are now generated in ``/target/gatling`` instead of ``/target/results``.

SBT Plugin
==========

In order to not conflict with "standard" tests frameworks, you're now required to prefix your command with ``gatling:``,
e.g. ``gatling:test`` instead of ``test``.




