---
title: "Migrating from 3.6 to 3.7"
description: "Gatling migration from 3.6 to 3.7"
lead: ""
date: 2021-04-20T18:30:56+02:00
lastmod: 2021-04-20T18:30:56+02:00
weight: 2090100
---

{{< alert tip >}}
Gatling 3.7 is not binary compatible with previous versions.
Any code compiled with a previous version must be recompiled in order to be executed with Gatling 3.7.
Changes listed below are only about source compatibility changes.
{{< /alert >}}

## Core

* Gatling Expression Language with `${}` was conflicting with Kotlin and Scala String interpolations. As a result, it's now deprecated and we recommend you now use `#{}` instead.
* `WhiteList` and `BlackList` have been renamed respectively into `AllowList` and `DenyList`. Old names are still present but are deprecated for removal and are no longer documented.
* `streamBody` request processor is probably unused and is deprecated for removal
* `heavisideUsers` has been renamed into `stressPeakUsers`. Old name is still present but is deprecated for removal and is no longer documented.
* `feed(feeder, Int)` is deprecated for removal and is no longer documented.
* `Feeder#convert` has been renamed into `transform`. Old name is still present but is deprecated for removal and is no longer documented.
* `flattenMapIntoAttributes` is deprecated for removal and is no longer documented.
* `SignatureCalculator` has been dropped. Please use simple functions instead.

## HTTP

* `polling` has been renamed into `poll`. Old name is still present but is deprecated for removal and is no longer documented.
* `maxConnectionsPerHostLikeXXX` are deprecated for removal. Please use `maxConnectionsPerHost(Int)` instead.
* `ignoreDefaultChecks` has been renamed into `ignoreProtocolChecks`. Old name is still present but is deprecated for removal and is no longer documented.
* `ignoreDefaultHeaders` has been renamed into `ignoreProtocolHeaders`. Old name is still present but is deprecated for removal and is no longer documented.
* [#4142](https://github.com/gatling/gatling/issues/4142): **BREAKING CHANGE** `ResponseProcessor` parameters order has been reversed for consistency

## JMS

* [#4139](https://github.com/gatling/gatling/issues/4139): **BREAKING CHANGE** JMS `replyTimeout` is now a Duration

## Maven

The new major version `4` of the `gatling-maven-plugin` no longer compiles Scala code itself.

In order to upgrade, you'll have to add the `scala-maven-plugin`, as described in the [documentation]({{< ref "../extensions/maven_plugin/#scala" >}})
