.. _2.0-to-2.1:

#########################
Migrating from 2.0 to 2.1
#########################

Global changes
==============

Scala 2.11
----------

Gatling is now built with Scala 2.11.
If you're using `Scala IDE <http://scala-ide.org/index.html>`__, make sure you're using a version compatible with Scala 2.11.

Compiler runs standalone
------------------------

Gatling itself doesn't compile the Simulations anymore and expects that the simulations are already compiled.
This means that gatling.sh/gatling.bat and the Maven plugin runs the compiler prior to running Gatling.
Consequently, a few options in gatling.conf have been removed:

* ``gatling.core.disableCompiler``
* ``gatling.core.zinc.jvmArgs``

Please note that, as this change implied that the Maven Plugin was heavily modified so that it compiles the simulations
separately prior to running Gatling, you'll need to upgrade the Maven Plugin to its version 2.1.0 too.

Percentiles
-----------

Gatling now publishes 4 percentiles instead of 2.
These percentiles are published in the reports and in the Graphite integration module.
Beware that keys in ``gatling.conf`` file have been translated:

* Gatling 2.0:

  * percentile1 = 95
  * percentile2 = 99

* Gatling 2.1+:

  * percentile1 = 50
  * percentile2 = 75
  * percentile3 = 95
  * percentile4 = 99

Core
====

Mute mode
---------

The "mute mode" option, which was previously restricted to the SBT Plugin,
is now also usable by the bundle scripts and the Maven Archetype.

Assertions
----------

Validating assertions in combination with the ``reports-only`` / ``ro`` option
does not require to pass the simulation (using ``-s``) for which the assertions will be validated anymore.

Throttling
----------

Throttling now automatically adds a maxDuration of either the simulation throttling duration, or the minimum of the scenarios throttling durations.

HTTP
====

Parameters
----------

Form parameters are no longer specific to POST method, you can use them with all methods.

Request Bodies Directory
------------------------

The directory name was changed from ``request-bodies`` to ``bodies`` as it now can host both request bodies and response bodies.
The latter one are now captured by the recorder, and can be used as template for :ref:`checking the response body <http-check-body-string>`.

CLI option was renamed from ``rbf`` to ``bdf``.

Checks
------

Deprecated ``dontValidate`` was dropped in 2.1 as previously announced.
Please use ``optional`` instead.

Protocol
--------

Deprecated ``baseHeaders`` was dropped in 2.1 as previously announced.
Please use ``headers`` instead.

Maven Archetype
===============

Due to some necessary changes to allow Gatling to use Scala 2.11, you'll have to update ``IDEPathHelper.scala``, ``Engine.scala`` and ``Recorder.scala``
if you're using the Maven archetype.

Either generate a new project with the 2.1.1 archetype (there was a bug in 2.1), or override your classes with the ones `here <https://github.com/gatling/gatling-maven/tree/gatling-maven-parent-2.1.1/gatling-highcharts-maven-archetype/src/main/scala>`_.
If you choose the latter, don't forget to fix the ``simulationPackage`` in ``Recorder.scala``.

SBT Plugin
==========

The SBT Plugin's test framework has been moved to the core project in 2.1.
As a consequence, the test framework name has be modified to follow the naming conventions of all core modules
and share its versionning.

The SBT Plugin will also share the same versionning schema as all other Gatling modules,
and has been renamed to 'gatling-sbt'.

The new coordinates are therefore :

* ``"io.gatling" % "gatling-sbt" % "2.1.0"`` for the SBT Plugin
* ``"io.gatling" % "gatling-test-framework" % "2.1.0"`` for the testing framework.
