.. _2.0.0-M3a-to-2.0:

###############################
Migrating from 2.0.0-M3a to 2.0
###############################

Global changes
==============

Gatling requires at least JDK7u6
--------------------------------

As targeting newer JDKs provides bug fixes, speed improvements and opens opportunities for optimization,
Gatling now requires at least a JDK7u6 (released almost two years ago already).

Gatling is now available on Maven Central
-----------------------------------------

Gatling releases are now available on Maven Central, and snapshots are deployed on each successful build by Travis CI to Sonatype's snapshots repository.
If you were using Gatling with its Maven plugin, you no longer need to add the Excilys repository in your ``pom.xml``.

Simulation
==========

Necessary imports
-----------------

* ``import bootstrap._`` and ``import assertions._`` are now unnecessary and have to be removed.
* ``import io.gatling.http.Headers.Names._`` is now unnecessary, headers names are now directly available from `HeaderNames`.
* ``import io.gatling.http.Headers.Values._`` is now unnecessary, headers values are now directly available from `HeaderValues`.

Injection DSL
-------------

* ``ramp(10 users)`` becomes ``rampUsers(10)``
* ``heaviside(10 users)`` becomes ``heavideUsers(10)``
* ``atOnce(10 users)`` becomes ``atOnceUsers(10)``
* ``constantRate(10 usersPerSec)`` becomes ``constantUsersPerSec(10)``
* ``rampRate(10 usersPerSec)`` becomes ``rampUsersPerSec(10)``
* ``split(10 users)`` becomes ``splitUsers(10)``

Core
====

Structure Elements
------------------

In ``asLongAs``, ``exitASAP`` now defaults to true. For more information on the change of behaviour it introduces, see :ref:`asLongAs documentation <scenario-aslongas>`.

Checks
------

* ``whatever`` has been renamed to ``optional``.
* ``transform`` now no longer takes and returns an ``Option[T]`` and takes and returns *plain* types, but ``transformOption`` provides the same functionality as ``transform`` did.

HTTP
====

Form parameters (for POST requests)
-----------------------------------

Renamed
^^^^^^^
Methods for adding form parameters to the request have been renamed:

* ``param`` => ``formParam``
* ``multiValuedParam`` => ``multiValuedFormParam``

Misc
----

* ``requestInfoExtractor`` and ``responseInfoExtractor`` have been merged into a single ``extraInfoExtractor``, which takes a ``ExtraInfo => List[Any]`` function.
* ``gatling.http.ahc.useRawUrl`` configuration parameter was removed, please use ``disableUrlEncoding`` instead, as described :ref:`here <http-protocol-urlencoding>`.

For more information on ``extraInfoExtractor``, please refer to its :ref:`documentation <http-protocol-extractor>`.

Logs
====

``simulation.log`` has been redesigned.

If you wrote your own specific ``simulation.log`` parser, you'll need to migrate it to the new structure.

Recorder
========

Until now, when setting up the Recorder, you had to setup two ports for the Recorder's *local proxy*: one for HTTP, one for HTTPS.
This is not needed anymore, as the Recorder handles itself the switch to an HTTPS connection if necessary, and only a single port needs to be specified.

Maven Plugin
============

The ``<includes>...</includes>`` and ``<excludes>...</excludes>`` configuration options have been removed.
Should you want to select a specific simulation to run, you can use the ``<simulationClass>...</simulationClass>`` config option to do so.

For more information, see the :ref:`Maven plugin documentation <maven-plugin>`.
